openr/docs/PrefixManager.md, before:

`PrefixManager`
---------------

This module is responsible for keeping track of the prefixes originating
from the node and advertising them into the network via KvStore.

### APIs
---

For more information about message formats, checkout
- [if/PrefixManager.thrift](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/PrefixManager.thrift)
- [if/Lsdb.thrift](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/Lsdb.thrift)

#### KvStoreClient
The kvStoreClient running with this module is responsible for making the
`prefix:<node_name>` key persistent in the network.

#### Cmd Socket
Supports the following commands
- `ADD_PREFIXES` => Adds the list of prefixes provided as an argument
- `WITHDRAW_PREFIXES` => Withdraws the list of prefixes provided as an argument
- `WITHDRAW_PREFIXES_BY_TYPE` => Withdraws prefixes of the type provided as an
                                 argument
- `SYNC_PREFIXES_BY_TYPE` => Withdraws all current prefixes of the type provided
                             and adds the list of prefixes provided
- `GET_ALL_PREFIXES` => Returns all prefixes currently being advertised
- `GET_PREFIXES_BY_TYPE` => Returns all prefixes of the type provided currently
                            being advertised

### Implementation
---
There are two channels of information for managing route advertisements

- `PrefixUpdateRequestQueue` -> Receives route advertise & withdraw commands.
Multiple sources within Open/R (LinkMonitor, PrefixAllocator, BgpRib) uses this
channel to manage their advertisements. Each source is assigned and expected to
use a unique type.

- `DecisionRouteUpdatesQueue` -> Received the computed (hence programmed)
routes. The programmed routes are candidates for advertisements to other areas
of which they're not part of. This is termed as route re-distribution across
the areas. Each RibRoute is converted into a route advertisement or withdraw
with a special type `RIB`.

In both cases, `PrefixManager` updates the PrefixDatabase advertised in
`kvStore` and persisted on disk when the list changes.

### Redistribute Prefix Workflow

For a route update (pfx1, node1, area1) from `decisionRouteUpdatesQueue`,
workflow is as follows:
- run area1 egress policy
- append area1 to area_stack, this is considered as a route cross area boundary
- run area2 ingress policy, if accepted => inject to area2.

## Selecting Unique Prefix Advertisement
A prefix can be requested to be advertised by multiple sources e.g. from
configuration (originating route) or RIB (re-distributing route). However,
only a single prefix information can be advertised to other nodes. We do so by
following criteria:
- Tie-breaking on Metrics
- If still not unique, then tie-break on type (aka Source). The tie-breaking on
source is statically defined in code

Let's take the same (pfx1, node1, area1) example:
- pfx1 is redistributed into area2, (pfx1(`RIB`), me, area2)
- pfx1 is originated with type `DEFAULT` (pfx1(`DEFAULT`), me, all)

To decide which prefix entry openr should originate. We'll compare their
attributes first, if they are the same, `DEFAULT`(2) win over `RIB`(6).

To conclude, attributes tie break happens in two places in openr:
- in prefix Manager: same prefix of different typrs originated by me.
- in decision: same prefix originated by different nodes.

### Interacting with PrefixManager
---

Use thrift APIs defined in `openr/if/OpenrCtrl.thrift` for querying, adding,
removing or updating originating prefixes.

Additionally, you can add and remove prefixes from the `breeze` cli. See
[docs/Breeze.md](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/docs/Breeze.md)
for more details

Commit message:

prefix manager: add diagram for redistribute route in prefix manager
Summary: add diagram for redistribute route in prefixmanager.md

Reviewed By: saifhhasan

Differential Revision: D23172303

fbshipit-source-id: f60ce1cc6a71eb1d0ff1478c4671602e3479ada0

openr/docs/PrefixManager.md, after:

`PrefixManager`
---------------

This module is responsible for keeping track of the prefixes originating
from the node and advertising them into the network via KvStore.

### APIs
---

For more information about message formats, checkout
- [if/PrefixManager.thrift](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/PrefixManager.thrift)
- [if/Lsdb.thrift](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/Lsdb.thrift)

#### KvStoreClient
The kvStoreClient running with this module is responsible for making the
`prefix:<node_name>` key persistent in the network.

#### Cmd Socket
Supports the following commands
- `ADD_PREFIXES` => Adds the list of prefixes provided as an argument
- `WITHDRAW_PREFIXES` => Withdraws the list of prefixes provided as an argument
- `WITHDRAW_PREFIXES_BY_TYPE` => Withdraws prefixes of the type provided as an
                                 argument
- `SYNC_PREFIXES_BY_TYPE` => Withdraws all current prefixes of the type provided
                             and adds the list of prefixes provided
- `GET_ALL_PREFIXES` => Returns all prefixes currently being advertised
- `GET_PREFIXES_BY_TYPE` => Returns all prefixes of the type provided currently
                            being advertised

### Implementation
---
There are two channels of information for managing route advertisements

- `PrefixUpdateRequestQueue` -> Receives route advertise & withdraw commands.
Multiple sources within Open/R (LinkMonitor, PrefixAllocator, BgpRib) uses this
channel to manage their advertisements. Each source is assigned and expected to
use a unique type.

- `DecisionRouteUpdatesQueue` -> Received the computed (hence programmed)
routes. The programmed routes are candidates for advertisements to other areas
of which they're not part of. This is termed as route re-distribution across
the areas. Each RibRoute is converted into a route advertisement or withdraw
with a special type `RIB`.

In both cases, `PrefixManager` updates the PrefixDatabase advertised in
`kvStore` and persisted on disk when the list changes.

### Redistribute Prefix Workflow

![RouteRedistributeLogic](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5740745/90441634-250fed00-e08e-11ea-90b5-d29c7e94e558.png)

For a route update (pfx1, node1, area1) from `decisionRouteUpdatesQueue`,
workflow is as follows:
- run area1 egress policy
- append area1 to area_stack, this is considered as a route cross area boundary
- run area2 ingress policy, if accepted => inject to area2.

## Selecting Unique Prefix Advertisement

![RouteRedistributeLogicWithBgp](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5740745/90441674-3953ea00-e08e-11ea-99dc-5c0cc731dda8.png)

A prefix can be requested to be advertised by multiple sources e.g. from
configuration (originating route) or RIB (re-distributing route). However,
only a single prefix information can be advertised to other nodes. We do so by
following criteria:
- Tie-breaking on Metrics
- If still not unique, then tie-break on type (aka Source). The tie-breaking on
source is statically defined in code

Let's take the same (pfx1, node1, area1) example:
- pfx1 is redistributed into area2, (pfx1(`RIB`), me, area2)
- pfx1 is originated with type `BGP` (pfx1(`BGP`), me, all)

To decide which prefix entry openr should originate. We'll compare their
attributes first, if they are the same, `BGP`(3) win over `RIB`(6).

To conclude, attributes tie break happens in two places in openr:
- in prefix Manager: same prefix of different typrs originated by me.
- in decision: same prefix originated by different nodes.

### Interacting with PrefixManager
---

Use thrift APIs defined in `openr/if/OpenrCtrl.thrift` for querying, adding,
removing or updating originating prefixes.

Additionally, you can add and remove prefixes from the `breeze` cli. See
[docs/Breeze.md](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/docs/Breeze.md)
for more details
