openr/docs/RibPolicy.md, before:

`RIB Policy`
------------

Routing Information Base (RIB) Policy provides ability to police the computed
routes before programming in underlying hardware. Currently supported use-case
is to modify `weight` parameter for each next-hop. However, it can be extended
in future to support changing `admin-distance` (aka route priority), add or drop
next-hops, change route metric, and block route from programming or
re-distribution.

### Flow Diagram
---

`Decision` module in Open/R implements the RIB Policy processing. The RIB Policy
applied on computed routes just before they're sent off for programming.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1482609/84713146-3f5b0c80-af1f-11ea-8d6b-58d7ce7a6a90.png" alt="RIB Policy Flow Diagram" width="whatever" height="400">

### Creating RIB Policy
---

RIB Policy is expressed in thrift specification and is defined as `struct RibPolicy`
in [`OpenrCtrl.thrift`](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/OpenrCtrl.thrift). Please refer to the documentation associated with the defined
structs for details.

At a high level RIB Policy consists of two parts, Matcher (Selection) and
Action (Transformation). The matcher specified criteria for route selection
on which action is to be performed. Action specifies the transformation intent.
One such pair of Match-Action is termed as `RibPolicyStatement`. Multiple
such statements can be specified. However, note that only first matching action
will be applied.

### Setting RIB Policy
---

RIB Policy can be set via RPC API (aka thrift API). It is not supported to be
set via configuration as of now. Following two APIs provide set and get of
RibPolicy. It is important to note that policy have `ttl_secs` field which
specifies the validity of policy, beyond which it is expired and effects of
policy will be reverted.

```
// Set policy API
void setRibPolicy(1: RibPolicy ribPolicy) throws (1: OpenrError error)

// Get policy API
RibPolicy getRibPolicy() throws (1: OpenrError error)
```

[SetRibPolicy](`https://github.com/facebook/openr/tree/master/examples/SetRibPolicyExample.cpp`) example code is provided for reference in terms of how to define and set RibPolicy.

For more details refer to `OpenrCtrl` service interface in [`OpenrCtrl.thrift`](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/OpenrCtrl.thrift).

### UseCase - NextHop Weight Transformation (UCMP)
---

Define and achieve policy driven weigted distribution of flows over multiple
next-hops. This could be useful in context where correctness of forwarding state
(aka routes) comes from the distributed protocols, but the operator wants to
influence the traffic flows as per congesion in the network (e.g. send more to
less congested part of network).

RIB Policy allows operators to customize the weight for computed next-hops. As of
now the weights can be customized per `area` field. See `RibRouteActionWeight`
struct in [`OpenrCtrl.thrift`](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/OpenrCtrl.thrift) for more information.

The next-hops that are processed through RIB Policy and gets assigned `weight=0`
will be removed. If policed route have no next-hop then it will be removed from
RIB. This won't be programmed as well won't get re-distributed across the areas.

### Configuration Knob
---

RibPolicy is by default disabled and RPC APIs will throw exception if an
application tries to set the policy. This is a safety mechanism to disable
this feature where it is not needed. You'll need to set the `enable_rib_policy`
field in OpenrConfig to `true` to make use of RibPolicy feature.

### CLI
---

Breeze CLI provides a command to view the currently configured RibPolicy.

```
$ breeze decision rib-policy
> RibPolicy
  Validity: 291s
  Statement:
    Prefix Match List: ::/0
    Action Set Weight: default=0, area-weights={'0': 1}
```

Commit message:

Per Neighbor Weight Enhancement
Summary:
RibPolicy now supports overwriting weights for next-hop groups per neighbor instead of per area

RibRouteActionWeight:
- nbr_to_weight string -> i32 map added to thrift struct
- area_to_weight string -> i32 map will be deprecated once DC Controller enhancement code is committed

NextHopThrift:
- otherNodeName field added to thrift struct
- New field is used to apply the RibPolicyStatement per neighbor weight to applicable next-hops

breeze decision rib-policy CLI command output modified to show per neighbor weights

Various test cases modified to use RibRouteActionWeight nbr_to_weight map instead of area_to_weight map

Reviewed By: saifhhasan

Differential Revision: D23557604

fbshipit-source-id: ce4b0656d71cd7471bfcb397f2d3c0c6b1908964

openr/docs/RibPolicy.md, after:

`RIB Policy`
------------

Routing Information Base (RIB) Policy provides ability to police the computed
routes before programming in underlying hardware. Currently supported use-case
is to modify `weight` parameter for each next-hop. However, it can be extended
in future to support changing `admin-distance` (aka route priority), add or drop
next-hops, change route metric, and block route from programming or
re-distribution.

### Flow Diagram
---

`Decision` module in Open/R implements the RIB Policy processing. The RIB Policy
applied on computed routes just before they're sent off for programming.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1482609/84713146-3f5b0c80-af1f-11ea-8d6b-58d7ce7a6a90.png" alt="RIB Policy Flow Diagram" width="whatever" height="400">

### Creating RIB Policy
---

RIB Policy is expressed in thrift specification and is defined as `struct RibPolicy`
in [`OpenrCtrl.thrift`](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/OpenrCtrl.thrift). Please refer to the documentation associated with the defined
structs for details.

At a high level RIB Policy consists of two parts, Matcher (Selection) and
Action (Transformation). The matcher specified criteria for route selection
on which action is to be performed. Action specifies the transformation intent.
One such pair of Match-Action is termed as `RibPolicyStatement`. Multiple
such statements can be specified. However, note that only first matching action
will be applied.

### Setting RIB Policy
---

RIB Policy can be set via RPC API (aka thrift API). It is not supported to be
set via configuration as of now. Following two APIs provide set and get of
RibPolicy. It is important to note that policy have `ttl_secs` field which
specifies the validity of policy, beyond which it is expired and effects of
policy will be reverted.

```
// Set policy API
void setRibPolicy(1: RibPolicy ribPolicy) throws (1: OpenrError error)

// Get policy API
RibPolicy getRibPolicy() throws (1: OpenrError error)
```

[SetRibPolicy](`https://github.com/facebook/openr/tree/master/examples/SetRibPolicyExample.cpp`) example code is provided for reference in terms of how to define and set RibPolicy.

For more details refer to `OpenrCtrl` service interface in [`OpenrCtrl.thrift`](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/OpenrCtrl.thrift).

### UseCase - NextHop Weight Transformation (UCMP)
---

Define and achieve policy driven weigted distribution of flows over multiple
next-hops. This could be useful in context where correctness of forwarding state
(aka routes) comes from the distributed protocols, but the operator wants to
influence the traffic flows as per congesion in the network (e.g. send more to
less congested part of network).

RIB Policy allows operators to customize the weight for computed next-hops. As of
now the weights can be customized per `area` or per `neighbor` fields. The `neighbor`
weight takes precedence over the `area` weight. See `RibRouteActionWeight` struct in
[`OpenrCtrl.thrift`](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/OpenrCtrl.thrift)
for more information.

The next-hops that are processed through RIB Policy and gets assigned `weight=0`
will be removed. If policed route have no next-hop then it will be removed from
RIB. This won't be programmed as well won't get re-distributed across the areas.

### Configuration Knob
---

RibPolicy is by default disabled and RPC APIs will throw exception if an
application tries to set the policy. This is a safety mechanism to disable
this feature where it is not needed. You'll need to set the `enable_rib_policy`
field in OpenrConfig to `true` to make use of RibPolicy feature.

### CLI
---

Breeze CLI provides a command to view the currently configured RibPolicy.

```
$ breeze decision rib-policy
> RibPolicy
  Validity: 291s
  Statement:
    Prefix Match List: ::/0
    Action Set Weight: default=0, area-weights={'0': 1}
```
