openr/docs/Protocol_Guide/KvStore.md, before:

# KvStore - Store and Sync

## Introduction

---

`KvStore` is the in-memory `key-value` datastore module of Open/R. It provides a
self-contained storage which aims for eventual consistency across the whole
network. Underlying implementation is based on **conflict-free replicated data
type (CRDT)**. The stores are inter-connected in a mesh, and synchronize their
contents in an eventually consistent fashion. The store is used to disseminate a
set of key-value pairs to all nodes in the network/cluster. For example, a node
may post information to its local store about its adjacent neighbors under a key
`adj:<node-name>` and this information will propagate to all other stores in the
network, under the same key name.

To limit the boundary of flooding domain, `KvStore` has multilpe `KvStoreDb`
instances spawned based on the number of `AREA` configured when initialized.
Each `KvStoreDb` will do sync/update individually with its counterpart of peer
node. For `AREA` concept, see `Area.md` for more details.

## Inter Module Communication

---

![KvStore flow diagram](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51382140/102562658-68a25400-408c-11eb-92f2-002a63b3831d.png)

- [Producer]: `KvStore` propagates `thrift::Publication` to local subscribers(
  i.e. `Decision`) for any delta update it notices. Those updates can come from
  either locally(e.g. prefix change from `PrefixManager` or adjacency change
  from `LinkMonitor`) or remotely.
- [Producer]: `KvStore` publishes `KvStoreSyncEvent` to `LinkMonitor` to
  indicate progress of initial full-sync between node and its peers.
- [Consumer]: `KvStore` receives **PEER SPEC** information from `LinkMonitor` to
  know how to establish TCP connection with peers over both Thrift and ZMQ
  sockect(to be deprecated).

## Operations

---

Typical workflow at a high level will be:

- `KvStore` spawns one or multiple `KvStoreDb` based on number of AREAs
  configured in the system upon initialization. Then it waits for peer update.
- Peer **UP**:
  - `KvStore` receives **PEER SPEC** info(i.e. TCP port, link-local address
    etc.) and tries to establish TCP connection to fulfill initial sync of
    database. See later section for detail of state transition.
  - Regarding to **parallel adjacency** case, `LinkMonitor` will help manage all
    of the complexity and make it transparent to `KvStore`.
- Peer **DOWN**:
  - `KvStore` receives **DOWN** signal and close established TCP session. Clean
    up all data-structures for this peer and stop periodic syncing.

## Deep Dive

---

### KvStore Public APIs

`KvStore` supports multiple types of messages exchanged between peers over TCP.
Message exchange is fulfilled via public API and invoked between thrift client
and server. Some examples are:

```
/*
 * @params: area => single areaId to get K-V pairs from
 *          thrift::KeyGetParams => parameters to get specific K-V pairs
 * @return: thrift::Publication
 */
folly::SemiFuture<std::unique_ptr<thrift::Publication>>
getKvStoreKeyVals(std::string area, thrift::KeyGetParams keyGetParams)

/*
 * @params: area => single areaId to set K-V pairs
 *          thrift::KeySetParams => parameters to set specific K-V pairs
 * @return: None
 */
void
setKvStoreKeyVals(std::string area, thrift::KeyGetParams keyGetParams)

/*
 * @params: area => single areaId to set K-V pairs
 *          thrift::KeyDumpParams => parameters to dump ALL K-V pairs
 * @return: thrift::Publication WITHOUT `value`(serialized binary data)
 */
folly::SemiFuture<std::unique_ptr<std::vector<thrift::Publication>>>
dumpKvStoreHashes(std::string area, thrift::KeyDumpParams keyDumpParams);

/*
 * @params: selectAreas => set of areas to dump keys from
 *          thrift::KeySetParams => parameters to set K-V pairs
 * @return: thrift::Publication
 */
folly::SemiFuture<std::unique_ptr<std::vector<thrift::Publication>>>
dumpKvStoreKeys(thrift::KeyDumpParams keyDumpParams,
       std::set<std::string> selectAreas = {});

```

For more information about `KvStore` parameters, check out

- [if/KvStore.thrift](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/KvStore.thrift)

### KvStore Sync via Thrift

There are three types of sychronization message exchanged inside `KvStore`:

- Initial Full Sync
- Incremental Updates, aka, flooding
- Finalized Full Sync

#### Initial Full Sync - Finite State Machine (FSM)

Intitial full sync with a peer is performed when it is added to the local store.

![State Machine Transition](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51382140/102559618-1f9ad180-4085-11eb-91c9-0605765da97b.png)

`KvStore` leverages FSM to track and update initial db full-sync with individual
peers. FSM ensures the clean state representation of peer and makes this
event-driven syncing easy to track and control.

```
KvStorePeerState
- IDLE        => fresh and not yet connected(default)
- SYNCING     => synchronizing with peer
- INITIALIZED => initial 3-way sync done

KvStorePeerEvent
- PEER_ADD          => new peer_spec received
- PEER_DEL          => peer is removed
- SYNC_RESP_RCVD    => initial db full-sync response received
- THRIFT_API_ERROR  => error/timeout/failure for initial sync
```

#### Incremental Updates - Flooding Update

All incremental changes in local KvStore are published as `thrift::Publication`
messages containing changes. All received incremental changes are processed and
applied locally and conditionally forwarded. The forwarding is done via thrift
client-server channel. Whenevenr an update is received, it is applied locally
and then forwarded to all neighbors. An update is ignored when it is echoed back
to avoid infinite loop of control packet. This is done via `originatorId`.

![flooding via thrift](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51382140/102559861-b4053400-4085-11eb-9dbc-0890ae0b4f75.png)

#### Finalized Full Sync - Part of 3 way sync

No matter a syncing request comes from either side of two peers, `KvStore` will
make sure both sides reach eventual consistency. So it implements **finalized
full-sync** mechanism to notify missing keys from peer's perspective.

For example, let's say we have K-V with format of **(key, value, version)**:

```
NodeA has: (k0, a, 1), (k1, a, 1), (k2, a, 2), (k3, a, 1)
NodeB has:             (k1, a, 1), (k2, b, 1), (k3, b, 2), (k4, b, 1)
```

Two cases:

- A initiates a full-sync with B:
  - A requests to get full dump K-V database of B by providing hashes of local
    store;
  - B replies all of its K-V pairs to A with: **thriftPub.keyVals**: k3(B has
    higher version), k4(A doesn't have) **thriftPub.toBeUpdatedKeys**: k0(B
    doesn't have), k2(A has higher version);
  - A noticed B needs to be updated with **k0** and **k2**. Send back with
    finalized full-sync;
- B initiates a full-sync with A:
  - Similar logic to follow 3-way sync;

### Implementation Details

#### Loop detection

To avoid blind flooding, the KV store implements loop detection logic similar to
BGP. We assign every KV store an "originatorId" which is unique in the system.
When a store receives a message, it checks the originatorId, and if it matches
then flooding stops. This allows one to design efficient flooding topologies and
avoid excessive message duplication in the mesh.

#### Data Encoding

One prominent feature is that all values are opaquely encoded as Thrift objects
using client's choice of protocol (though this is not strictly required). The
data-store itself does not care about the value contents, it only needs to be
told if two values are different, when it propagates them. At the same time, on
the client side, this approach removes the burden of protocol encoding/decoding
by using our standard Thrift libs.

#### Versioning of K-V pairs

We implement very simple versions for merge conflict resolution. Every key has a
**64-bit** version value, which is compared to the incoming update message. Only
if the incoming version is greater will we update the local store and flood the
original update message to our subscribers (peers). Notice that we'll preserve
the original version in the flooded message so that other folks can compare
their versions with the original submission.

#### Delete Operation

KvStore only supports `Add` or `Update` operations. Implementing `Delete`
operation in CRDT is non-trivial and not well defined in eventual consistent
fashion. For all practical purposes, `Delete` operation can be acheived via
optional `time-to-live` aka `ttl` field, which indicates the lifetime of
key-value.

#### Time-To-Live(ttl)

When advertising a key-value, set the `ttl` to a specified amount of time and
submit to the local store. On update, the local store will flood it to all other
stores in the network. Periodically every store will scan locally stored keys
and decrement the ttl with the elapsed time. If the `ttl` drops below `0`, the
key is removed from the local store. Since every node does the same operation,
the key is deleted from all stores. When key-dump is requested, then an updated
ttl is sent (received - elapsed time) reflecting the remaining lifetime of a
key-value since it's origination.

#### ttl updates

In order to keep key-values with limited lifetime persisted for long duration,
originators are expected to emit `ttl updates` with new ttl values. On receipt
of a ttl update (with higher version), the ttl of a key in local store is
updated and the ttl update is flooded to neighbors.

#### Key Expiry Notifications

Whenever keys are expired in a given KvStore, the notification is generated and
published via thrift channel. All subscribers can take appropriate action to
handle an expired key (for e.g. Decision removes adj/prefix DB of nodes). These
notifications are ignored by other KvStores as they will be generating the very
same notifications by themselves.

#### KvStoreClientInternal

`KvStore` is core and a heavily used module in Open/R. Interacting with
`KvStore` involves sending and receiving proper thrift objects on sockets. This
was leading to a lot of complexity in the code. `KvStoreClientInternal` is added
to address this concern. It provides APIs to interact with KvStore in an
easy-going way. While submitting `Key-Vals`, special care needs to be taken for
the versions from originator's perspective. To be sure changes make it to the
network and NOT **overriden** by others, originator need to submit with a newer
version, and then wait for K-V publication to come back.

> NOTE: There is a special `persist-key` operation which can ensure that
> key-value submitted doesn't get overridden by anyone else.

### More Reading

- [Conflict Free Replicated Data Type (CRDT)](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Conflict-free_replicated_data_type)

Commit message:

Misc enhancement for Protocol_Guide
Summary:
Misc enhancement for documentation link including:

- Add diagram for `Decision` inter-module communication;
- Standardize inter-module queue description;

Reviewed By: jstrizich, yi-xian

Differential Revision: D25673671

fbshipit-source-id: 49a543d1f07b483a2da144e2339c262642eedb34

openr/docs/Protocol_Guide/KvStore.md, after:

# KvStore - Store and Sync

## Introduction

---

`KvStore` is the in-memory `key-value` datastore module of Open/R. It provides a
self-contained storage which aims for eventual consistency across the whole
network. Underlying implementation is based on **conflict-free replicated data
type (CRDT)**. The stores are inter-connected in a mesh, and synchronize their
contents in an eventually consistent fashion. The store is used to disseminate a
set of key-value pairs to all nodes in the network/cluster. For example, a node
may post information to its local store about its adjacent neighbors under a key
`adj:<node-name>` and this information will propagate to all other stores in the
network, under the same key name.

To limit the boundary of flooding domain, `KvStore` has multilpe `KvStoreDb`
instances spawned based on the number of `AREA` configured when initialized.
Each `KvStoreDb` will do sync/update individually with its counterpart of peer
node. For `AREA` concept, see `Area.md` for more details.

## Inter Module Communication

---

![KvStore flow diagram](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51382140/102562658-68a25400-408c-11eb-92f2-002a63b3831d.png)

- `[Producer] ReplicateQueue<thrift::Publication>`: propagate
  `thrift::Publication` to local subscribers( i.e. `Decision`) for any delta
  update it notices. Those updates can come from either locally(e.g. prefix
  change from `PrefixManager` or adjacency change from `LinkMonitor`) or
  remotely.
- `[Producer] ReplicateQueue<KvStoreSyncEvent>`: publish `KvStoreSyncEvent` to
  `LinkMonitor` to indicate progress of initial full-sync between node and its
  peers.
- `[Consumer] RQueue<thrift::PeerUpdateRequest>`: receive **PEER SPEC**
  information from `LinkMonitor` to know how to establish TCP connection with
  peers over both Thrift and ZMQ sockect(to be deprecated).

## Operations

---

Typical workflow at a high level will be:

- `KvStore` spawns one or multiple `KvStoreDb` based on number of AREAs
  configured in the system upon initialization. Then it waits for peer update.
- Peer **UP**:
  - `KvStore` receives **PEER SPEC** info(i.e. TCP port, link-local address
    etc.) and tries to establish TCP connection to fulfill initial sync of
    database. See later section for detail of state transition.
  - Regarding to **parallel adjacency** case, `LinkMonitor` will help manage all
    of the complexity and make it transparent to `KvStore`.
- Peer **DOWN**:
  - `KvStore` receives **DOWN** signal and close established TCP session. Clean
    up all data-structures for this peer and stop periodic syncing.

## Deep Dive

---

### KvStore Public APIs

`KvStore` supports multiple types of messages exchanged between peers over TCP.
Message exchange is fulfilled via public API and invoked between thrift client
and server. Some examples are:

```
/*
 * @params: area => single areaId to get K-V pairs from
 *          thrift::KeyGetParams => parameters to get specific K-V pairs
 * @return: thrift::Publication
 */
folly::SemiFuture<std::unique_ptr<thrift::Publication>>
getKvStoreKeyVals(std::string area, thrift::KeyGetParams keyGetParams)

/*
 * @params: area => single areaId to set K-V pairs
 *          thrift::KeySetParams => parameters to set specific K-V pairs
 * @return: None
 */
void
setKvStoreKeyVals(std::string area, thrift::KeyGetParams keyGetParams)

/*
 * @params: area => single areaId to set K-V pairs
 *          thrift::KeyDumpParams => parameters to dump ALL K-V pairs
 * @return: thrift::Publication WITHOUT `value`(serialized binary data)
 */
folly::SemiFuture<std::unique_ptr<std::vector<thrift::Publication>>>
dumpKvStoreHashes(std::string area, thrift::KeyDumpParams keyDumpParams);

/*
 * @params: selectAreas => set of areas to dump keys from
 *          thrift::KeySetParams => parameters to set K-V pairs
 * @return: thrift::Publication
 */
folly::SemiFuture<std::unique_ptr<std::vector<thrift::Publication>>>
dumpKvStoreKeys(thrift::KeyDumpParams keyDumpParams,
       std::set<std::string> selectAreas = {});

```

For more information about `KvStore` parameters, check out

- [if/KvStore.thrift](https://github.com/facebook/openr/blob/master/openr/if/KvStore.thrift)

### KvStore Sync via Thrift

There are three types of sychronization message exchanged inside `KvStore`:

- Initial Full Sync
- Incremental Updates, aka, flooding
- Finalized Full Sync

#### Initial Full Sync - Finite State Machine (FSM)

Intitial full sync with a peer is performed when it is added to the local store.

![State Machine Transition](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51382140/102559618-1f9ad180-4085-11eb-91c9-0605765da97b.png)

`KvStore` leverages FSM to track and update initial db full-sync with individual
peers. FSM ensures the clean state representation of peer and makes this
event-driven syncing easy to track and control.

```
KvStorePeerState
- IDLE        => fresh and not yet connected(default)
- SYNCING     => synchronizing with peer
- INITIALIZED => initial 3-way sync done

KvStorePeerEvent
- PEER_ADD          => new peer_spec received
- PEER_DEL          => peer is removed
- SYNC_RESP_RCVD    => initial db full-sync response received
- THRIFT_API_ERROR  => error/timeout/failure for initial sync
```

#### Incremental Updates - Flooding Update

All incremental changes in local KvStore are published as `thrift::Publication`
messages containing changes. All received incremental changes are processed and
applied locally and conditionally forwarded. The forwarding is done via thrift
client-server channel. Whenevenr an update is received, it is applied locally
and then forwarded to all neighbors. An update is ignored when it is echoed back
to avoid infinite loop of control packet. This is done via `originatorId`.

![flooding via thrift](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51382140/102559861-b4053400-4085-11eb-9dbc-0890ae0b4f75.png)

#### Finalized Full Sync - Part of 3 way sync

No matter a syncing request comes from either side of two peers, `KvStore` will
make sure both sides reach eventual consistency. So it implements **finalized
full-sync** mechanism to notify missing keys from peer's perspective.

For example, let's say we have K-V with format of **(key, value, version)**:

```
NodeA has: (k0, a, 1), (k1, a, 1), (k2, a, 2), (k3, a, 1)
NodeB has:             (k1, a, 1), (k2, b, 1), (k3, b, 2), (k4, b, 1)
```

Two cases:

- A initiates a full-sync with B:
  - A requests to get full dump K-V database of B by providing hashes of local
    store;
  - B replies all of its K-V pairs to A with: **thriftPub.keyVals**: k3(B has
    higher version), k4(A doesn't have) **thriftPub.toBeUpdatedKeys**: k0(B
    doesn't have), k2(A has higher version);
  - A noticed B needs to be updated with **k0** and **k2**. Send back with
    finalized full-sync;
- B initiates a full-sync with A:
  - Similar logic to follow 3-way sync;

### Implementation Details

#### Loop detection

To avoid blind flooding, the KV store implements loop detection logic similar to
BGP. We assign every KV store an "originatorId" which is unique in the system.
When a store receives a message, it checks the originatorId, and if it matches
then flooding stops. This allows one to design efficient flooding topologies and
avoid excessive message duplication in the mesh.

#### Data Encoding

One prominent feature is that all values are opaquely encoded as Thrift objects
using client's choice of protocol (though this is not strictly required). The
data-store itself does not care about the value contents, it only needs to be
told if two values are different, when it propagates them. At the same time, on
the client side, this approach removes the burden of protocol encoding/decoding
by using our standard Thrift libs.

#### Versioning of K-V pairs

We implement very simple versions for merge conflict resolution. Every key has a
**64-bit** version value, which is compared to the incoming update message. Only
if the incoming version is greater will we update the local store and flood the
original update message to our subscribers (peers). Notice that we'll preserve
the original version in the flooded message so that other folks can compare
their versions with the original submission.

#### Delete Operation

KvStore only supports `Add` or `Update` operations. Implementing `Delete`
operation in CRDT is non-trivial and not well defined in eventual consistent
fashion. For all practical purposes, `Delete` operation can be acheived via
optional `time-to-live` aka `ttl` field, which indicates the lifetime of
key-value.

#### Time-To-Live(ttl)

When advertising a key-value, set the `ttl` to a specified amount of time and
submit to the local store. On update, the local store will flood it to all other
stores in the network. Periodically every store will scan locally stored keys
and decrement the ttl with the elapsed time. If the `ttl` drops below `0`, the
key is removed from the local store. Since every node does the same operation,
the key is deleted from all stores. When key-dump is requested, then an updated
ttl is sent (received - elapsed time) reflecting the remaining lifetime of a
key-value since it's origination.

#### ttl updates

In order to keep key-values with limited lifetime persisted for long duration,
originators are expected to emit `ttl updates` with new ttl values. On receipt
of a ttl update (with higher version), the ttl of a key in local store is
updated and the ttl update is flooded to neighbors.

#### Key Expiry Notifications

Whenever keys are expired in a given KvStore, the notification is generated and
published via thrift channel. All subscribers can take appropriate action to
handle an expired key (for e.g. Decision removes adj/prefix DB of nodes). These
notifications are ignored by other KvStores as they will be generating the very
same notifications by themselves.

#### KvStoreClientInternal

`KvStore` is core and a heavily used module in Open/R. Interacting with
`KvStore` involves sending and receiving proper thrift objects on sockets. This
was leading to a lot of complexity in the code. `KvStoreClientInternal` is added
to address this concern. It provides APIs to interact with KvStore in an
easy-going way. While submitting `Key-Vals`, special care needs to be taken for
the versions from originator's perspective. To be sure changes make it to the
network and NOT **overriden** by others, originator need to submit with a newer
version, and then wait for K-V publication to come back.

> NOTE: There is a special `persist-key` operation which can ensure that
> key-value submitted doesn't get overridden by anyone else.

### More Reading

- [Conflict Free Replicated Data Type (CRDT)](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Conflict-free_replicated_data_type)
